docs/scientific_computing.md, before:

# Scientific computing

```mermaid
graph LR
   Best_practices_for_scientific_computing[Best practices for scientific computing] --> Using_HPC_systems[Using HPC systems]
   Best_practices_for_scientific_computing --> Version_control_with_git[Version control with git]
   Best_practices_for_scientific_computing --> Containers_on_HPC[Containers on HPC]
   Best_practices_for_scientific_computing --> Jupyter_notebooks[Jupyter notebooks]
   Best_practices_for_scientific_computing --> Data_analysis_and_visualization[Data analysis and visualization]
   click Best_practices_for_scientific_computing "https://gjbex.github.io/Training-sessions/best_practices_for_scientific_computing" "Best practices for scientific computing"
   click Using_HPC_systems "https://gjbex.github.io/Training-sessions/using_hpc_systems" "Using HPC systems"
   click Version_control_with_git "https://gjbex.github.io/Version-control-with-git/" "Version control with git"
   click Containers_on_HPC "https://gjbex.github.io/Containers-for-HPC/" "Containers on HPC"
   click Jupyter_notebooks "https://gjbex.github.io/Training-sessions/jupyter_notebooks" "Jupyter notebooks"
   click Data_analysis_and_visualization "https://gjbex.github.io/Training-sessions/data_analysis_and_visualization" "Data analysis and visualization"
```

Scientific computing is a broad field that encompasses many different aspects of
computing.  It is the application of computer algorithms to solve scientific
problems.  This can range from simple data analysis to complex simulations.

However, it also requires a certain mindset and knowledge of best practices to
ensure that the results are reliable and reproducible.  This includes knowledge
of [version control](https://gjbex.github.io/Version-control-with-git),
software design, testing, and documentation.  For more information on this
topic, see "[Best practices for scientific
computing](best_practices_for_scientific_computing.md)".

Commit message:

Add new training sessions
* Best practices for data science on HPC
* Python for beginners
* MLOps on HPC

docs/scientific_computing.md, after:

# Scientific computing

```mermaid
graph LR
   Best_practices_for_scientific_computing[Best practices for scientific computing] --> Using_HPC_systems[Using HPC systems]
   Best_practices_for_scientific_computing --> Version_control_with_git[Version control with git]
   Best_practices_for_scientific_computing --> Containers_on_HPC[Containers on HPC]
   Best_practices_for_scientific_computing --> Workflows_for_HPC[Workflows for HPC]
   Best_practices_for_scientific_computing --> Jupyter_notebooks[Jupyter notebooks]
   Best_practices_for_scientific_computing --> Data_analysis_and_visualization[Data analysis and visualization]
   best_practices_for_scientific_computing --> Best_practices_for_data_science_on_HPC[Best practices for data science on HPC]
   click Best_practices_for_scientific_computing "https://gjbex.github.io/Training-sessions/best_practices_for_scientific_computing" "Best practices for scientific computing"
   click Using_HPC_systems "https://gjbex.github.io/Training-sessions/using_hpc_systems" "Using HPC systems"
   click Version_control_with_git "https://gjbex.github.io/Version-control-with-git/" "Version control with git"
   click Containers_on_HPC "https://gjbex.github.io/Containers-for-HPC/" "Containers on HPC"
   click Workflows_for_HPC "https://gjbex.github.io/Workflows-for-HPC/" "Workflows for HPC"
   click Jupyter_notebooks "https://gjbex.github.io/Training-sessions/jupyter_notebooks" "Jupyter notebooks"
   click Data_analysis_and_visualization "https://gjbex.github.io/Training-sessions/data_analysis_and_visualization" "Data analysis and visualization"
   click Best_practices_for_data_science_on_HPC "https://gjbex.github.io/Training-sessions/best_practices_for_data_science_on_HPC" "Best practices for data science on HPC"
```

Scientific computing is a broad field that encompasses many different aspects of
computing.  It is the application of computer algorithms to solve scientific
problems.  This can range from simple data analysis to complex simulations.

However, it also requires a certain mindset and knowledge of best practices to
ensure that the results are reliable and reproducible.  This includes knowledge
of [version control](https://gjbex.github.io/Version-control-with-git),
software design, testing, and documentation.  For more information on this
topic, see "[Best practices for scientific
computing](best_practices_for_scientific_computing.md)".
